{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red160\green32\blue240;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14860\viewh10100\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 All routine are commented at the beginning so 
\b help
\b0  or 
\b doc
\b0  will work to get arguments and return values\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 The main routine is 
\b segmentCells
\b0 , and will process a nuclear image only or together with a cytoplasmic image. Communication between routines by means of the 
\b stats 
\b0 structure array, as defined in MATLAB routine regionprops(), and various masks.  I add fields to the stats struct, eg for statistics of integrals of over nuclei and cytoplasm. All parameters are contained in 
\b setUserParamCCC20x
\b0  and 
\b setUserParamCCC10x 
\b0 and this is the primary place where they are defined. (other setUserParam* are derived and not up to date!, check dates on files). To understand what various routine are doing, use the 
\b verbose
\b0  options (set in 
\b setUserParam*
\b0  ), which dumps useful plots. \
\
The top level routine calls two others which segment nuclei based on threshold, 
\b findNucThresh.m,
\b0  and one that looks for local max, 
\b countNucCtr.m
\b0 .  Both can be used in isolation if you copy the few preprocessing lines at the top of 
\b segmentCells. 
\b0 A handy script to segment the cytoplasm cell by cell is 
\b edgeThreshCyto. 
\b0 Its currently used by 
\b segmentCells
\b0 .
\b \

\b0 \
When running more than one file from series, it pays to automate calling files using 
\b processFolder*
\b0  scripts. This routine has option to save the 
\b stats
\b0  struct array for the times analysed for later plotting, as well as routine 
\b outputData4AWTracker
\b0 , to interface with AW Tracker, see code. It prints the feeding history relative to time of image file, using a hacked version of  AW's 
\b getFeedings
\b0   and parses  path names to extract the relevant files in 
\b DATA.
\b0  The 
\b setUserParam*
\b0  file is called from 
\b processFolder* 
\b0 and
\b  segmentCells
\b0 ; former overrides latter, but for security in command window do 
\b >clear global userParam
\b0 , when switching between 
\b setUserParam*
\b0  files. \
\
Computation of cell statistics done progressively and stored in 
\b statsN
\b0  struct array. Fields used by segmentCells are computed in that routine. Computation of cytoplasm mask and background computation are done in 
\b edgeThreshCyto
\b0 . Finally given the masks defining the nucleus and cytoplasm (or using a donut area around the nucleus in place of the cytoplasm), average/variance of the raw image green (smad) channel images are calculated in 
\b addCellAvr2Stats
\b0 \
\
Still experimenting with routines to mask out the PDMS using the green channel, 
\b maskPDMS, maskPDMSNoCells 
\b0 I have written routines to shift masks around to optimally register with given image, 
\b registerPDMSMask2Img
\b0 .\

\b \

\b0 Other functions that can be used directly are:\

\b \
processFolderRedGr
\b0 : 	to process files with a given key word(s) in a named directory. See related files with specific dates, which organize red/green and various numbering schemes. (red,gr are nuc and smad markers resp.)  This routine uses\

\b folderFilesFromKeyword :	
\b0 can be used directly to parse a list of file names containing a key word into [prefix, suffix, and list of numbers]\

\b getLogfile:  
\b0 			take a full path to particular chamber number and infer feeding logfile name, and other bits\
and for data analysis,\
\

\b addCellAvr2Stats
\b0 : 	take output of segmentCells and integrate any img over nuclei, cytoplasm\

\b addNucAvr2Stats:
\b0  	take output of segmentCells and integrate any img over nuclei\

\b xy2Stats
\b0 :			given a nuclei near x,y on an image, return its statistics. \

\b plotHistStats:
\b0 		print histograms and scatter plots from data from 
\b addCellAvr2Stats\
feedingHistory:	
\b0 print all feedings prior to given time in nice format, needs prior call to 
\b getFeedings.m\
readStatsPlotTime 
\b0  read the stats vs time file saved to disk and do various time plots\
\
graphics\
\

\b dispCCC
\b0 :	 		various nice plots of color channels and phase.\

\b showImgEdgePts:
\b0 	plot an img overlaid with edges and points\
\

\b Known Bugs:
\b0 \
	The verbose option display of image/edges/pts in segmentCell() does not nicely scale the edge lines when magnify. Solution is to change the marker size to 5 in showImgEdgePts(), the line...\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 plot(rescale*col, rescale*row, [colors(i) \cf2 '.'\cf0 ], \cf2 'MarkerSize'\cf0 , 4 );\
	If segmenting nuclei using only 
\b countNucCtr
\b0 , two nuclei with a ridge in intensity connecting them will appear as one. Using 
\b findNucThresh
\b0  first will get most of these at considerable computational cost, alternatives being implemented.\
	For versions of MATLAB which do not have the function bwconncomp() eg prior to 2010a, I do a test for Matlab_2008a and implement a work around. Need elaborate test for other releases.  grep 2008a *.m will find the tests\
\

\b Quirks:
\b0  (ie features that may seem like bugs)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	In green channel the PDMS supports and culture medium, no cells have different backgrounds by 25%. Some 'nuclei' may appear at edge of PDMS, but they typically to not have any cytoplasm and are eliminated from plots in 
\b plotHistStats 
\b0 but they are retained in 
\b addCellAvr2Stats
\b0  . Others persist but can be filtered out by having low background intensities (which is a field in 
\b stats
\b0 )\
	The fields in the 
\b stats
\b0  array can refer to either nuclei or cytoplasm, and fields are added in various routines as they process the image. The ones used for outputs documented in 
\b addCellAvr2Stats,
\b0  otherwise have to trace through 
\b segmentCells
\b0 .
\f1 \
}